Transcript


Search in video
- Good afternoon. I'm Ian Colle, the Director of Advanced Computing
and Simulation at AWS. Thank you for coming today. Before we start, I just wanna make sure
that this whole silent disco thing is really working. So, I've never done one of these before. I don't know how many of you have, so I wanna take a little
poll to see how we can get a little interactive. How many of you, is this your first re:Invent?
Please raise your hand. Wow, congratulations! On the other end of the spectrum, how many of you have been
to more than 10 re:Invents? Anyone? Wow.
Well, I'm kind of in between. This is actually my ninth re:Invent, my eighth presenting.
I started in November of 2017. Unfortunately, I was staying at the Vdara
and no one gave me the hint about wearing comfortable shoes. So, I subsequently walked to half marathon on my first day
coming to different presentations here and there. Since then, I've learned my lesson.
But it was an interesting time to be talking about HPC on AWS. You see, two weeks previous to that
had been SuperComputing 2017 in Denver. And, I was freshly minted AWS employee.
And I ran into a number of my former colleagues at Whamcloud, at Intel,
at Ink Tank at Red Hat. And they asked me, "Ian, what is Amazon Web Services
have to do with high performance computing?" And, let's just say we had a lot of skeptics around.
And part of the reason I'm so excited to have the two colleagues that I have with me today to talk
to you are because two of the biggest skeptics, and honestly two of the biggest companies that held us accountable
for developing the HPC infrastructures and orchestration tools that we have today are Shell and Toyota.
In fact, I recall very vividly walking into a customer meeting with Shell at SuperComputing 2017,
and a very kind gentleman in a very strong Texas drawl said,
"Ian, you seem like a nice guy, but you don't have the performance.
I don't know about your security. And, to be honest, I don't know that you'll ever hit the price that I need
to perform my high performance computing workloads on AWS."
Wow. Welcome to the company. That was quite a shock, but it was really refreshing to hear someone
that could be that open and honest with me. A couple months later, one of my first international trips was to go meet with Toyota.
Again, sat down. They explained that they had decades of experience
of tweaking their high performance computing clusters to where they could perform at such levels of efficiency
that they weren't sure that we could ever demonstrate the business value of moving some of those workloads onto AWS.
And here we are. It took us a while to get there, but not only do we have both Toyota
and Shell migrating a portion of their workloads onto AWS, but they're gonna talk to you today
about how they have them in production and what that has meant to them.
So, what are we gonna talk about today? We're gonna talk about PCS, Parallel Computing Service.
What is it? Why did we develop it? And, a big part because of what I just said,
very demanding customers like Toyota and Shell and others asking us for a fully managed HPC as a service.
We're gonna go a little bit into the design, cost, pricing, where you can find it, what regions it's in,
and then you'll hear from them directly. You'll hear from Shell and from Toyota about how they're implementing it.
And then I'll come back up and do a little recap, and I'll give you a little teaser with a pretty cool little demo on one
of our other services, AWS Batch.
What is driving this need for HPC as a service?
What is causing us to really evaluate how do we make HPC workloads simpler
for customers to execute? And part of it is just the explosion of HPC.
I mean, honestly, with the growth of AI workloads, the integration of AI and simulation,
we see customers across disciplines looking at how to more efficiently
and effectively implement architectures that before were considered some of the most extremely demanding
of any in all of scientific computing. And that's why we've developed Parallel Computing Service
to address these solutions. Instead of the complexity
of creating your own infrastructure, we're allowing simple infrastructure as code repeatable setups that can be driven by APIs.
We're allowing customers to focus on what they do best, which is scientific workloads, research
and development, engineering and simulation. And allow the expertise and the actual infrastructure to be handled
by our managed service and take away some of that undifferentiated heavy lifting, still allowing those onsite HPC administrators
to perform their very important tasks of upleveling what their customers can perform,
but giving them more tools to where they can rely on us to do some of the more mundane, patching, updates,
often things that would have to take a whole cluster down previously that can now be done
via API-driven development and seamlessly to the underlying cluster.
So again, what is AWS Parallel Computing Service or PCS? It is, our initial version is a managed Slurm offering.
How many people have heard of Slurm? Please raise your hand. Okay. Bunch of people. Slurm is the most popular open source schedule option.
Where there are a number of popular schedules across industries from LSF to PBS Pro,
to Symphony, Slurm has taken on a really important role,
especially in large language model training and in AI because of the role it's been in academia
and its open source background. And so because of that, we thought let's start with a scheduler that's fully open source
and that we can provide a breadth of experiences to our customers.
Now, we're still reviewing other schedulers, so if I didn't mention your favorite scheduler or if you say, "Hey, Ian Slurm is great to have as managed,
but I've got a bunch of stuff written that's tailored to a specific scheduler,
I would really like a managed version of that," come talk to me afterwards. Send me an email, you'll have my contact info
at the end of this. We're still looking to expand this. We just started with Slurm because of the popularity within open source.
Where does PCS fall within our HPC portfolio? Again, HPC is a pretty broad term.
And so, I wanted to give you a little picture of everything that we talk about. It's just like you would think about high performance computing on premises.
We need networking, we need compute, we need performance storage, and we need some way to tie it all together
into a coherent cluster. And so, that's why you see here?
We have remote visualization from our RES, we have remote visualization from Amazon DCV.
We have a various ways that you can instantiate different clusters depending
upon what you're looking for. I mentioned a little bit about a AWS Batch. I'll go into that later. I also talk about how we've evolved
from Parallel Cluster to PCS and why some customers choose to use one over the other.
And then we've got this whole family of EC2 instances, from our HPC optimized instances all the way down
to our most latest and greatest R8i on the Intel Xeon 6th Generation
Granite Rapids chips that we recently released. All the way to the latest and greatest NVIDIA GPUs
from the GB200 to the B300 available in our P6 family.
But whatever that particular EC2 instance you wanna orchestrate, we can do that with PCS.
Again, it's not just the compute though, it's the storage. And so you have a whole family of storage products
that you can integrate into your cluster, depending upon your needs. Some people really like FSX for luster, again,
because of the open source backgrounds similar to Slurm. Some people have a whole bunch of their infrastructure set up with FSX for NetApp ONTAP
and so they wanna maintain that. We support all of that. You can connect your storage that you choose
for your workloads to the particular compute you like, all using PCS.
So how did we get here? Again, I talked about how I joined Amazon at the end of 2017.
When I showed up, there was this long partnership with Intel and AWS to where they had a vision
and saw back in 2015, we need to make it easier for customers to instantiate these large HPC clusters.
And so, we jointly created this open source toolkit called CFN or Cloud Foundation Cluster.
But when I showed up, I talked with a bunch of customers and they said, "Is this even associated with Amazon?
We see like a GitHub repo and you know, this doesn't really look like something I'm ready to stand behind and put my production workloads on
unless it has like an AWS something next to it." So, we very quickly said, "Okay, we need to stand this up
as more than just an open source toolkit. We need to have this be a fully fledged Amazon-supported
solution with a support team behind it." And so, we rebranded that open source repo
as AWS Parallel Cluster and stood up a whole team of engineers that, to this day, continue to upgrade
and improve AWS Parallel Cluster. But along the way, we learned from a lot of customers,
"Hey, I appreciate the modularity. I appreciate the ability to kind of
hack AWS Parallel Cluster 'cause it is completely downloadable, as I said, open source toolkit.
But you know, I really would like a managed service. There are so many things that are hard to do
with just an open source toolkit. Number one being, you know, it's kind of annoying that I have to blow away my entire cluster
and recreate it from scratch just to pick up the latest and greatest Parallel Cluster version.
Is there some way you could do it like all the other AWS services to where it seamlessly
is upgraded behind the scenes and I don't have to think about that?" As well as, "I would love
to be able to do infrastructure as code. I wanna do more API-driven development. Can you make it a true AWS service?"
And that's why last year we released AWS PCS.
What does it allow you to do? Again, it's managed Slurm. So what does Slurm allow you to do?
It allows you to scale and schedule resources for compute jobs.
You can define how you allocate those. You can give priorities, you can set up various cues
and we'll go into some of the details and the actual orchestration of those jobs.
And you can set various priorities. One of the key values of moving your scheduling
to a service like AWS PCS is the ability to dynamically provision resources.
If you can imagine, typically within the history of high performance computing, we're looking at a fixed box.
We've got an on-prem resource that is, let's just say 100 nodes, 1,000 nodes, pick your favorite number.
And we are trying to efficiently allocate jobs to exercise
and execute on those resources. But here's the thing with the cloud, we blow the top off
that box and we say, when does it make sense to have those resources? Do we have jobs in the queue?
Okay, if we have jobs in the queue, then let's scale up. If we don't have jobs in the queue, then let's scale down.
That's one way that customers take advantage of this dynamic scaling. There are other times where, especially in the new world
of very scarce GPU resources where you say, "I've got these GPUs and I'm not letting go of 'em.
Okay? And I'm gonna use 'em just like I would and on-premise resources, and I'm gonna keep it up 24-7 and I'm gonna feed it just like I would.
And I want you to just maximize scheduling against those 50 GPUs as much as you can."
But depending upon that static allocation or dynamic allocation, it's all up to you.
You have control over how you allocate those resources to the compute jobs that you need to execute.
One of the nice things, too, about having a managed service is now we're integrated with the broader AWS system.
And so you get CloudWatch logs, and so you can look then, oh, what happened with my jobs?
What happened with this scaling? What happened with this execution? And so, you get that insight that
before with Parallel Cluster, you didn't have those insights.
One of the high value updates that I see of moving from Parallel Cluster
or moving to PCS is customers have told me, again,
there's so many times where I just wanna upgrade something. It could be, I wanna upgrade an OS on the nodes.
I wanna upgrade just a particular patch. I wanna upgrade Slurm versions.
And all of this has to be done by the admin. Can we figure out a way that kind of AWS can take some
of that undifferentiated heavy lifting off of my admins and give me the resources to where I can just say,
update the cluster and hit this API And that will happen.
Again, we talked about the flexible architecture. You can use CPUs, GPUs, pick your favorite storage.
Regardless of what is particular to your infrastructure and your needs, we're not prescribing what you have to use it for.
And that's part of that benefit of moving to cloud resources is it's not a one-time snapshot
to where you have to pick, okay, what is my 80% solution that maybe right now is going to be a certain flavor of GPU
and a certain flavor of CPU, but at the rate that they're cranking the wheel on new GPU versions,
by the time I actually get it into production, I may be two or more iterations
behind on the innovations that have happened there. With the flexible scheduling
that you have on AWS, I spin up some of the older instances, I spin up some of the newer instances.
It's totally in your control, what resources you allocate to your jobs.
When we looked at this, creating PCS, we wanna make sure that we are meeting the needs of multiple stakeholders.
Obviously within HPC, we have not just scientists and engineers, but we have a whole family.
We have HPC system administrators. Again, the people that are actually allocating the resources
for the scientists to do experiments on. What are their needs? There has to be some sort of really robust logging.
There has to be a way that they can have telemetry into how efficiently is my job being scheduled?
What resources is it taking advantage of? Do I have resources sitting there that are not being utilized?
And, how do I measure that efficiency? For the scientists and engineers,
again, they're the core end user. How do we make it as seamless to them to where
they don't even notice if they're running on AWS with PCS, maybe AWS with Parallel Cluster
or on premises, how do we make that Slurm migration such that for them it's the same experience?
Because at the end of the day, the last thing we want to do is slow down the innovation by our researchers.
We want the opposite. We want to help them speed up. And you're gonna see some of the examples from customers about how migrating to PCS has helped them
really improve that innovation cycle.
We have a number of partners and ISVs that have built on top of Parallel Cluster before and now on PCS that wanted us to really do that integration
of an AWS service so they could build a partner offering for their customers.
So, let's take a quick deep dive into what does PCS look like?
You see, it's a standard cluster. So, a cluster unsurprisingly has a number of node groups.
We have one for logins and we have one for compute types. And then we have a number of cues that kind of
schedule back and forth. And we'll go into different options that you can have around queuing. And then, again, pick your favorite flavor
of storage, your favorite directory service. We'll integrate with it. It's not prescriptive.
So here's an example where you see a user logs into Node Group A.
Okay? They have a queue that is attached to two different compute types. So they've got one node group that's specified for arm CPUs,
one node group that's specified for x86 CPUs, and that queue can schedule between them.
Similarly, you could have one that's GPUs and one that's CPUs. Now, on the other hand, we see on the second example below
where you have the opposite thing. Instead of having one queue that goes to two node groups, you've got two separate queues
that go to a single node group. And again, that gets to the area where I'm talking about.
Let's say you have that ODCR, that on demand capacity request where you wanna maximize that.
And so you don't really care if it's jobs from QA or QB, you wanna make sure that those hardware resources
that you've committed to use are being employed as effectively and efficiently as possible.
Here's even pulling back the covers a little bit more into some of the detailed of the architecture.
And so you can see, you can SSH into the login node.
A user can then execute their cues from two different permission groups. And, what I really want you to focus on
is the two big boxes, or actually one big box on top, little rectangle on the bottom.
And that is the shared responsibility model. And that's where everything that's in that bottom rectangle,
we handle all of that. We handle all those updates. You don't have to worry about any of that. If there are minor security patches, if we have new versions
of software that we roll out, new features and functionality, that just updates, you get that for free.
You don't have to do anything. We just upgrade the service. Everything in the top box, that's all in your VPC,
your compute nodes, you control that. So if you're gonna do something like, let's say
a massive update to all of your underlying AMIs,
that's something that your admin would continue to have. But, if it's something that we are gonna provide a newer
version of Slurm to you to execute, you can then use our update cluster API
to upgrade your Slurm version. And again, we wanted to make this as seamless
as possible, just like every AWS service. So, Console, API SDK, it all works.
How can you purchase this? Again, we're just talking about scaling EC2 nodes. So, the same way that you purchase EC2 nodes,
So ODCR, Spot, On Demand, you can utilize those.
Again, here's that shared responsibility model. Here's what we update for the controller. Here's what you update.
In some cases with it's a minor version, it's a non-disruptive update, we just do it. If it's a major version, we want you to have
that control to where you can decide whether or not to update it.
Same with PCS features. We update it and it's fully supported.
Where is PCS? Well, right now, these are the locations where it's at.
You can see there's some in Europe, there's some in Pacific,
there's some in North America. But the most exciting thing that I wanted to talk about is
that by the end of next year, we don't need this slide 'cause it'll be everywhere. And so we are making it globally expanding.
So our AWS PCS by the end of 2026 will be in every Amazon region.
Observability. CloudWatch logs, I talked a little bit about that, just standard observability things from AWS.
You'll be able to get all of that with PCS, especially around tagable resources.
This is how customers often track their cost,
by tagging specific jobs to work groups. That's how then that allows them,
through the CloudWatch logs to say, okay, this work subgroup perform these jobs which cost this X.
And you can do your own internal build backs if that's what you're doing for cost accounting.
Pricing, there are two fees, okay? One is, lemme just go into this,
how your cluster controller is set up. Now, this is something we wanna improve in the future, but right now you kinda have to say, eh, t-shirt sizing,
I think I'm gonna need to do a small, or maybe I need to do a large. And then, you can upgrade,
but you need to like tear everything down and go back in order to upgrade, In the future, we wanna make this dynamic scaling.
So maybe, at one point you need a small, and sometimes you need a large and you can just migrate back and forth without it being as invasive as it is today.
But right now, you need to commit to what is the size of your controller, because that limits how many jobs you can execute.
Then, we have, for the accounting feature where we do Slurm accounting, obviously that's gonna save an accounting database,
which takes up S3 storage. So, we're gonna bill you back for that storage, but it's not a big plus up or anything.
We're just trying to account for the storage that that accounting database could take up.
And then you're gonna pay for your general EC2 instances, those are in your account.
Last, I wanna talk about a real world example before I turn it over to Satoshisan for a brief overview
of how they're using PCS at Toyota, and then a deeper insight from Michael
about what they're doing at Shell. But Tune Therapeutics, if you haven't heard of them, it's really interesting.
They're a company in the biomedical space studying epigenetics.
Basically what they're looking at is not just gene editing or anything, but how do you turn gene expression off
and on via medicine? And they just went into trials earlier this year
on a treatment for hepatitis B. And so by not doing gene splicing where you can, oh, oops,
we got the wrong thing there, or who knows what is going on on the side there, by limiting it to how genes
or groups of genes are expressed, there's a very favorable outcome that they see by being able
to limit their impact to epigenetics as opposed to genetic sequencing and editing.
And so, what they've seen from us is by moving to AWS PCS, they were able to cut their innovation cycle down
from 12 weeks to two to three weeks. Now, I want you to think about that in sheer terms.
Imagine if your scientists, engineers, researchers were able to turn the crank on great ideas
that they tried four times a year. That's what they were doing before ish.
Now, 25-ish times a year. What kind of a change would that allow you
to have in your organization if you could turn the crank on innovation that much more rapidly by speeding it up?
So with that, I'm gonna give up the stage to Satoshisan where he'll talk to you about what they're doing at Toyota.
- Thank you. Hello everyone. My name is Satoshi Ikemure
and I'm the leader of HPC at Toyota Central R&D Labs
Today, I'd like to share how our organization modernize HPC environment.
First, let me briefly introduce our company. Toyota Central R&D Labs is our research institute
within the Toyota Group. It was established back in 1960
to create usual and high quality research result.
We work together with a variety of companies and research organizations, both in Japan
and overseas, including Toyota Group companies and our technical partners.
We conduct research across a wide range of fields, including information technology,
environment and energy, and material science.
Our major achievement includes the development of QR code,
the practical (indistinct) of Visible-Light responsive Photocatalyst,
and the demonstration of artificial photosynthesis.
These studies contribute to serving social challenge and building a sustainable society
and continue to evolve through collaboration with Toyota Group companies
and research institutions worldwide.
We integrated the computing needs of various research team
and provide and scale our shared computing environment.
This environment is operated by a team of about 10 members
and is designed to flexibly support a wide range of applications and resources,
including CAE simulations, AI and machine learning workloads
and large scale research data storage.
We support researchers in (indistinct) accessing the computing resources they need when they need them.
Since this is a shared computing environment, we usually design and provide standard computing resources.
But depending on the research project, some needs large scale resources or long running competitions.
Once that can take several months to complete.
It requires an efficient environment when we try to meet all those demands.
A lot of job ended up waiting in the queue and adding new computing resources could take months,
from ordering to actually running. First, to others, our challenge, we started
by providing dedicated EC2 instances.
However, costs were incurred even when the instances were idle.
Next, we adapted AWS Parallel Cluster, but setting up individual environments
for each research was time consuming and running separate controller nodes increased cost.
So, we dedicated not to expand each use.
Later, our AWS Parallel Computing Service was released.
It provided the dedicated nature of EC2 and the flexibility of Parallel Cluster
only in just a few clicks, so we quickly dedicated to adapt to it.
PCS is provided as managed service that including the schedule.
Since the PCS environment can be interpreted, configured and bridge through our goal,
we can easily create environments on our own without regarding on external vendors, as we did before.
For providing computing environments, we listen to each researchers needs
and simply link the appropriate instance type and the required number of instances
to their own dedicated queue.
This allows them to start large scale or long running computations immediately.
In addition, because the instances automatically stop when the computation is finished,
it has also contributed to reducing overall cost.
Finally, here are outcomes we achieved by adapting AWS PCS:
environment setup, which use take six weeks on premise
and several days with AWS Parallel Cluster.
Can now be completed in just 30 minutes with PCS,
allowing researchers to spend more time focusing on their work.
Soon after the released, actual use began.
With request for R7i 48xlarge instances
for large scale material simulations and p4de.24xlarge instances for AI
and machine learning workloads. Being able to quickly accommodate
these advanced computing demands demonstrated the flexibility and effectiveness
of PCS in practice in addition. Integration with jobs execution now allows research
to be used only when needs, including overall utilization
and running to cost optimization.
We are also freed from daily operations, giving us more time
to focus on creating new value.
Let's transform together from a system that process
into one that respond to needs. Thank you very much.
(audience applauds)
- All right, good afternoon, everyone. I'm Michael Gujral with Shell.
I lead our global HPC engineering and operations. As you can tell, I do not have a Texas drawl, so it was not me in 2017, but we will talk about 2017.
Ian and I have had many similar meetings, but happy to be on stage here to talk about our HPC journey
with AWS and specifically some of the things that we've seen in PCS.
First, let me talk a bit about Shell. I don't work at a gas station and it took me a long time to convince my kids of that.
Thankfully, they now know where my office is, so they believe that I don't go to a gas station every day.
But as a company, 2022 numbers, but we're the size of a city.
We're in 70 countries. 46,000 people visit our retail site. Those top two are things that most people associate with us,
most people know with us. It's really not what I'm gonna talk much about today at all.
What I'm gonna talk about is our upstream side of the business, because that's really who you uses HPC.
So 2,800 barrels of oil equivalent per day is our production. And then 66 million tons of liquified natural gas
are two key energy sources.
What does that mean and what do those ultimately produce? A lot of energy solutions. So, hopefully everyone drove a Toyota here
and filled it up with Shell and then you'd be compliant with the presentation here.
But a large range of energy solutions as we see ourselves,
an integrated energy company providing energy for the energy needs of tomorrow.
But what we're gonna talk about here today is getting into that, and again, a lot of different customer segments that
that our products help and fuel. But again, to fill up all those pipes, we need a tremendous amount of compute to not actually
produce it, but to find it. So, what we're gonna talk about today is upstream.
So in our upstream business, we need 85 to 95% of our compute is used for seismic imaging.
What's seismic imaging? You send sound waves into the earth and you listen back to it.
Very, very complex physics. And, so two questions to think about when we look at this slide.
One, why do we need HPC? Why do we need more HPC? And then, why cloud? Why do we believe Ian in 20, well,
we didn't believe him in 2017, but why do we believe in the cloud and, you know, what's going on?
And my slide is not working. We'll see if the animation fixes itself, but why more HPC?
So as we go into more and more complex areas, and as we try to find oil and gas, either deeper
or in more challenging spaces, we need more physics. And very simply put, the algorithms
that we're solving are physics that were probably based in the 1970s. It's wave equation based.
The challenge has always been the affordability of compute. And so, essentially we give our geophysicists a new machine,
they fill it up algorithmically. The same thing happens with storage. But this is not a talk about storage.
And then, why cloud? And, Satoshisan talked about this as well, and Ian talked about this as well.
The cloud enables us to be more reactive. What do we historically do?
We guess. We think we need this much compute because we think we're gonna have this many projects in this many years.
And you buy a big system and you fill the system, but you never really know what could we have done?
What you generally do is you prioritize your workloads, but blowing the cap off, as Ian said, in cloud was a huge driver.
What does that do for us as a business? Enables more rapid decisions. If we can make those decisions
much closer to when we need it. If we can turn capacity on when we need it, you know, enabling value of information,
that for us is a critical path to our bottom line. Getting these images out faster is enabling
our business to move faster. And then delivery timelines. What you don't see, but is probably of no surprise,
is getting gear on premise has become incredibly challenging. Prior to COVID, things were generally
smooth-ish, simple-ish. Now in a post-COVID world with the AI boom,
with modern day GPUs using a tremendous amount of power,
this has become a complex challenge that is one that we do. We still do it today.
We still do have some on-premise, We still do have some on-premise, of it for us because the scale and the repeatability
and just the efficiency that they do it at makes it that my engineers don't
So it makes it that my engineers don't So, that's why we need HPC. So that's why we need HPC.
and let's go down memory lane. So it wasn't me in 2017 at SC, but again, from 2017
but again, from 2017 to 2022, we struggled.
We saw this thing called cloud. We thought, oh, we should try and do HPC in the cloud.
And, we tried a lot of different things, largely POC scale. And, I think a lot of what we did was we tried
We said, "Hey, I have 10 nodes here, We said, Hey, I have 10 nodes here, let's provision 10 nodes. I don't like your nodes.
Oh, well, you know, let's try Spot because Spot's cheaper. Well, we can't handle interruptions.
And so, we just kept failing and really didn't see a lot of traction. And then, and the person that came up
with it sitting here in the aisle, he said, "Well what if we could go 10x as fast?"
What if, because when you go 10x as fast, you change how you do things in life.
When you take something that takes you, you know, six hours to do or 60 minutes to do, and you can do it in six minutes,
you're gonna do it more times. And so the 10x challenge that we said was, alright, Amazon,
we want you, because we have an embarrassingly parallel workload, just make it go 10x faster wall clock time, that's all.
It's a simple ask. You're infinite, let's do it. And, what we also said was, do it technically first.
Commercials are important, but we're gonna put that on a parallel track and then if it's really expensive, we may never do it
or we may do it once and if it's affordable, we'll do it all the time. But, we separated the two tracks
and said, how do we go faster? How do we actually impact our bottom line? It was still hard because going 10x scale,
scale breaks everything. And so that was hard. In 2022, the stars aligned for us.
One of our key algorithms, Full Waveform Inversion, had just become accelerated onto a GPU.
That led to a much more heterogeneous design, or sorry, homogeneous design that our nodes, because of NVIDIA's reference architecture,
looked a lot like a P series node in AWS. We realized that
we didn't have to take the whole workflow. We always thought we need to take every single bit
of our HPC workflow end to end. What we realized is, no, actually we don't. Data has gravity, but HPC has attraction.
And so what we decided was, and we basically unwound our workflow and said, this bit runs on accelerators
and what do you know, the input size is actually pretty small. We can send that up and use a tremendous amount of GPUs
and bring it back down. So, all of those things align that in December of 2022,
we go live in production with, at the time p4de's, A100s. And, that was really the start of our journey
in, you know, the journey was along, but that's been the start of our production journey. And, it's a wild time because in December of 2022,
for those of you that remember, ChatGPT had just come out. And so, we're like, oh yeah, these A100s are great. And then, it became very challenging to get them.
And that's the next part of the story. But again, and coming to the tagline here
and the advantage of working with Amazon for a long time is you start to speak their language as well in that we always thought this was
going to be a staircase. And we're like, well, okay, Ian, you have to, you know, get to step one, get to step two.
Where now we're at a point where we're actually at a flywheel and that we do iterate much more.
So what happened in 2025? One of the biggest things for us is capacity blocks. So, having EC2 capacity blocks
and having the ability to have predictable bursts, because trying to get a p4de was a challenge.
And, we'll leave it at that. But, with capacity blocks, with the visibility we have
of when we need capacity, this has been a huge enabler for us. So, the stat to give you is since 2022,
because of our ability to burst, we've accelerated two and a half years of wall clock time of projects
by enabling burst. That's critical path items to our bottom line
that we've been able to accelerate by, as Ian said, blowing the lid off and thinking differently about what capacity do we need.
So, now we're in the flywheel. So the bad news is we're still not at 10x.
The good news is we've sustainably hit three to 5x and that two and a half years is, of course, a proof point of that,
that we are definitely headed towards there. And so what are we doing now? Now we're in the flywheel
and the pace that we're able to iterate, the pace that we're able to do things. And this is where PCS has become a piece
of that is the journey now, if I look at what we've done, even just this year in 2025 versus what we did in '22
to '25, the pace of innovation that we're able to drive is just so much faster.
Both, that's of course what our HPC users do, but even what us as an HPC department does,
how we think about it, how we provision our systems. So, let's dive into a bit more detail
about how we started and where we go. And I think very similar to Toyota,
we started with Parallel Cluster. One of the things we learned in all those early POCs that failed was, well,
we realized we don't have a containerized workload. So, while Batch is a great tool, it wasn't the right tool
for us, but we did try to use it for, you know, a good number of times. We tried other solutions as well,
but what we realized is Parallel Cluster and Slurm was familiar because it's what we use on premise.
So it was this comfortable feeling. Now the cloud wasn't this scary thing. It was, oh, we know how to use Slurm. We know, you know, so it was a very, very familiar thing.
We were able to use it in multiple regions and multiple clusters. And that was really what enabled us in 2022.
Really great tool. But, of course you've heard Ian mention this already,
there were challenges with Parallel Cluster in that we knew we could do better.
We knew that there was more that we could do, there was more that we could do in this cloud journey. And so, where were some of the pain points
or what were some of the inflection points? We wanted to combine multiple architectures in queue.
You don't really think about wanting to, needing to do that on premise, but now you can. What if I want Graviton and AXC sitting beside each other?
Well, that's a novel concept. But yeah, it was reasonably hard to do, or it needed a lot of clever engineering work
to do in Parallel Cluster. Native Terraform support. We used Terraform in Parallel Cluster
through cloud formation. It was a lot.
We had great engineers that made that work. We'll leave it at that, but maybe not where we wanted
to invest all the time that we need to. Multiple OS support, especially as our AI workloads are continuing to emerge,
we're seeing more need for Ubuntu, we're using Rocky, we're using Rails. So again, being able
to have multiple OS's is just another thing that gives us flexibility as an HPC provider inside the company.
Seamless integration to Spot, I'll come back to that story a bit later on. How cool that's been.
An unpopular thing to say in an HPC talk, but some of my HPC engineers in private have admitted
that they like the GUI. They'll never tell their peers that, but the GUI has been a very handy tool
to visualize what it looked like. And, again, instant cluster upgrades.
This is true because we came to a world with Parallel Cluster where it's very familiar. You take the cluster down, you bring it back up.
But, any update? And the reality in the cloud is you're doing way more updates if you want to,
or if you, if you desire to, because on premise, you bring in a cluster, you have new nodes for n number of years.
Well now, they're releasing nodes all the time. Maybe I want a different shape, maybe I want a different size. So, the number of updates can be so much more.
So that was really our inflection point. When they announced PCS, it was, this looks great, but,
and that was one of those hard customer meetings where we're there with you. We just need these features and my kudos
and recognition to the PCS team. We set a path, we looked at the roadmap.
We said, okay, there's our jump in point. We needed key things like Rocky 8. We needed capacity block support.
We were not willing to do PCS as a toy, as a POC.
It was, we're gonna go, but we're going with our biggest production workloads. That's how we're going.
We're not gonna go just for fun. We're gonna go for it all.
And so once those were met, we already talked about the motivations and then the fun really started to happen.
So, what happens? We had this timeline. We knew when the features were coming, we had everything lined up. We have a great AWS ProServe team that's been working
with us since 2021 as well. In the 11th hour, we're getting ready in the final sprint.
I get a call on a Friday morning and one of our ProServe engineers has decided
to leave AWS in two weeks. That was a challenging call. And, it led to a bit of a fire alarm scenario.
We said, okay, who are the engineers we need from AWS? Who are the engineers we need from Shell?
We got them all in a room in the Netherlands. Thankfully, we were able to get everyone's visa in time. One of the visas came in Sunday night
as the flight was Monday morning. So, there was some hairy moments in there, but we got all the people together
and it was just phenomenal. The excitement that was in that room of them being able
to solve problems, to be able to deliver it. It was really, really amazing to see that come together.
And again, it was, you know, some of the considerations of, we do things on a head node
because it's there in Slurm on premise. That's just, it's there, it's convenient. Well now it's Amazon's head node,
we're not allowed to touch it. So, now we have an admin node. So, there was some considerations, node groups.
It's a great idea, but when you haven't thought about it, it does take something of how best do we use a node group? How many nodes do we want?
How many do we wanna put in? What's maintainable? Dealing with, you know, quotas and swath quotas
and convincing the PCS team that no, yes, you need to increase the quota. And then exposing Slurm features
'cause again, having used Slurm we knew what we would wanna see. And again, it's just been
a really great partnership in that. So, here's what it looks like. I think I'm not gonna go into detail.
Ian showed you a a bit of this already. I will call out because someone's gonna look at their screenshot later and say,
"Is there a hamster in there?" Yes, there is a Hamster in there. Hamster is one of our API tools.
Our optimization team has a thing with rodents. They're called The Rats. That is Hamster.
There is a tool called MICE and others. But yes, that is a Hamster. But essentially, on the left you have your user
and the user has no idea whether it's Parallel Cluster or PCS.
They are aware whether it's on-premise or the cloud, but that's only because of data. And they need to make sure their data is there.
But other than that, it's the same user experience. We run across multiple AZs, we run across multiple regions
and really in a very seamless way. And you see Spot in there and I'll come back to that one.
So, we were at SuperCompute 25 a couple weeks ago, and one of our lead developers was there and he says to our engineer that's leading our PCS effort,
he said, "Hey, can I get a Spot instance in Oregon?" Opens up his console, two lines of Terraform,
hits commit, within a few minutes, there it is, in Oregon live under PCS.
How has that historically work? You know, update the cluster, take the cluster down,
drain the cluster, do it again. That seamless upgrade that Ian talked about
is very, very real. And, then with Terraform as well, again, two lines of code.
That's seconds. So, Satoshisan said 30 minutes. Again, I think big cluster changes probably a minute,
you know, maybe better than 30 minutes. But this one was, you know, a minute and it was just such a cool thing to see
how happy our researcher was that it just came through. And the other thing that we always had to do,
we have the advantage of an embarrassingly parallel workload. So, when we did these cluster changes, we could still make it seamless to the user.
You would slowly drain one cluster, you'd slowly rehydrate it. It was really clever engineering
that our HPC engineers were able to do. But, now they don't even need to do that. Now, they can use their creativity elsewhere.
So again, once we got through the scare of losing the resource and getting all the right things,
I can tell you our migration to Parallel Cluster Service was really anti-climactic
because the way we found out about it was one of our overseas engineers decided to just do it.
And then, the team in the US came in and said, "Why is this one monitoring thing broken?"
Nothing with the cluster was broken, but it's just why. And it was like, oh, I decided to switch to PCS.
It was like, thanks for telling us. So, but you know, really, and it's exactly what you want it, you know,
no news was good news. And it's been been a really great thing. So that's why PCS, you know, it's how
it's helping us focus on what we need to do. What's next? And again, at least for our HPC side, one
of the things now is, okay, now they control our Slurm. They know where the capacity is.
They know how do we play multi-region, how do we get more creative now about finding
and unlocking more capacity, especially 'cause for us, we're using primarily P series NVIDIA
instances, which are on the harder end of the spectrum of nodes to get.
To get a shameless plug, if you want to know more about Shell's HPC journey, IND 3314,
tomorrow at MGM, I'll talk a bit more about our overall journey. And then with that, just maybe one last comment
and it's a big thank you, Ian, to you, to the whole PCS team, to my team that made this possible.
A tremendous amount of work has gone into the journey since 2017, but even more recently in getting to PCS
and really excited to be here and to share where you've been. So, Ian, thank you. And with that, back to you.
(audience applauds)
- Huge thank you to Michael and Satoshisan for sharing a little bit into their journey
on AWS from on-prem onto AWS Parallel Cluster onto AWS PCS.
If you yourself wanna find out more details about PCS, please take a screenshot of this.
Look at the QR codes. We've got some getting started documents as well as further details on it.
But I also, I couldn't leave this presentation without at least giving you a little teaser on AWS Batch
and some other things we've been cooking up. And one of the things AWS Batch falls in our orchestration
here, you heard Michael talk about he doesn't have containerized workloads, so he wasn't interested in it. Well, if you do have containerized workloads
and you're running on ECS or Fargate or EKS, Batch is a great scheduler
that we've created on AWS and one of the interesting areas that we see differentiating here is where customers say,
you know what, if I wanna run my containerized workload, you know, maybe I'll consider AWS Batch.
But it is an AWS proprietary scheduler, so it doesn't have a lot of the open source ecosystem
around it that a Slurm does. But if you're willing to go all in on AWS APIs, AWS Batch is a great solution for you to consider
for your containerized workloads. One of the very interesting updates that we did this past year was we integrated it
with SageMaker Training Jobs. And where this is really cool is Batch allowed
Toyota Research to do large behavioral models.
For those of you that are... Most people are familiar nowadays with LLMs, but LBMs are not as well known.
And where that that comes into play is where they're actually training robots how to interact
with everyday world. So, instead of having to go a step by step training,
they're creating a model. They're updating the dataset and then allowing the robot to iterate.
And I'm gonna show you a video next that will just, it's about a one minute video and I'll invite you to look at the differences
between the video on the left, which is just standard, trying to train it point by point, to the one on the right,
which is trained with an LBM. And I'll especially invite you to look
at how the robot struggles with the banana. But, this exercise is a robot being set.
Just set the table. So imagine, if you will, we're living in an era where,
for whatever reason, this is either someone that's physically incapacitated or needs some sort of support,
and so they're looking for a robot to help them set the table. And you can see here, this has been accelerated
to try to get it through in time for this demonstration. But, you can see how the robot on the left,
let's just say it's kind of on the struggle bus with a lot of these features that a human could very easily pick
up the cereal, pick up the bowl, pick up the banana. Again, really struggling to pick up the banana.
Then on the right, it's just sitting there done. It's kind of been waiting there. Okay, the breakfast is set, where do we go?
Poor guy on the left, just pouring cereal all over the table.
So, this is an idea of this integration with Batch, with SageMaker Training Jobs allowed the creation
of the this efficient, large behavioral model where Toyota's innovation was able to really accelerate
and it's still struggling with the spoon. I'm gonna let it go. Poor thing. So, what does it allow you to do? Now again, this didn't require any code change
between the left and the right. That's kind of weird. No code change. This is just using the trained model
with a different data set and allowing these robots to really generate new insights
with updated visualization data sets. If you wanna learn more about AWS Batch, again,
I know this is just a brief gloss. I just wanted to show you what I thought was a pretty cool demo.
Take a picture of that QR code, take it for a spin.
Now, this is kinda like the Steve Jobs, but wait, there's more. We announced at SuperComputing a couple weeks ago
and early next year you will have access to the latest and greatest AMD Turin in our HPC 8A instance.
So, those will be out early next year. Also, significantly, invite you if you want
to see the details, take a snapshot of this QR code. I spent a long time in the US military
as a naval intelligence officer. And so this means a lot to me, personally. But we saw that our customers in the classified spaces
and government spaces specifically did not have ready access to the latest and greatest supercomputing and AI resources.
And so we have committed up to a $50 billion investment, ensuring that our customers in GovCloud East, GovCloud West,
secret and top secret regions have access to the most
innovative hardware resources they can get to execute their mission-specific workloads.
And then, I couldn't leave this without at least giving credit to my team's recognition
at the SuperComputing Awards for the eighth year in a row, recognizes the best HPC in the cloud platform.
And then, the thing that we talked most about today, AWS PCS also being recognized as one
of the top five new technologies to watch in all of HPC.
I would invite you also, if you're here for the rest of the week, hopefully, there are a ton more HPC sessions.
We've got breakout sessions, we've got working sessions, we've got a few more of these keynotes. Please take a look at that QR code, go to those sessions,
ask more questions and then I'll leave you with this. There's our contact info. If you wanna get ahold of any of us, we'll be standing up here on the side and then invite you,
please, please complete your survey. It's super important to us. That's how we get better. We want to hear directly from you, was this valuable?
Did Ian talk too long? Was Satoshi really insightful? You know, those types of feedbacks, we really always look for that for you directly to tell us
how we're doing and how we can make this interactive with you. Did you enjoy the silent session? Was it weird? You know, anything you wanna put in there.
This is my first silent session. I thought it worked pretty well, but I'd love to hear from you all. And so, thank you so much for your time
and hope to see you more. (audience applauds)

